hello I'm Sequoia evolution on this
episode of ox my boat were traveling
with auxilary who call Coast Guard City
USA their home and finding out that
teamwork is what made their boat ox
ready
if you think of this boat platform looks
familiar
then you're right you guys tell us the
history of this particular boat this
boat was built in 1966 by the Coast
Guard in Curtis Bay Maryland she spent
her entire career
roughly well when she was commissioned
up till about in 1894 when the Coast
Guard decommissioned her nests in the
new 47 quarter started coming online
the boat was donated to the silver
sights Museum in Muskegon and the boat
deteriorated they didn't have the punch
ruler to maintain it where it should
have been so they turned back over to
government surplus the boat ended up
being the mothball and then she
deteriorated quite a bit when we come
across the boat a private individual
owns this boat his name was Randy Roth
Schafer he lives down at Port Sheldon
and yes as we come together and help him
rebuild a boat in turn for the labor and
we put into the boat then we could use
the boat in the August or he's always a
win-win for him it was a great place for
us in the auxilary because we actually
get a platform that was built for doing
what we're doing instead of taking a
civilian boat and converting it to it
this boat was built three or four she
was what we're doing tensive rebuild the
foulest completely gutted one bad engine
and we had to Reeve repower the boats
the guys on board here
faded in redoing sandblasting the
painting and hours of rewiring and it
was just a massive project massive
indeed with Ken driving the project the
rest the team tells us just how
labor-intensive it really was a lot of
hard work a lot of real hot muggy days
but it was quite an experience for me
being able to to work on an old boat and
then being a Coast Guard boat besides
that it's about a three and a half years
restoring it stripped it down to the
bare metal and start from the bottom up
that's kind of helper monkey
I did do the electronics on board and
anything else can told me too if it
wasn't a team effort the boat never
would've got back wires there's so many
hours of you know hours upon hours when
I was we can do these a lot of guys
donated their time on their vacation
time was used on this boat so what work
was done to take this boat from being on
its last leg to being thus are ready
beauty she is today
the boys Phyllis in we had the boat
completely sandblasted to get down
properly prime and painted up again in
the original colors and the Coast Guard
actually reissued the same numbers for
43:59 back to the boat against that's
her official number again so
we were kind of tickled to have that
electronics was actually we got from
another auxilary member donated the
electronics to us and then we Brian
rewired to poke the boat operates on a
24 volt system a lot of the stuff is 12
volts so thanks Brian he went back and
required a lot of stuff and so it was a
lot of a lot of people who came together
with different talents and get this
project off the ground otherwise they'd
still be sitting in the yard of Muskegon
but there's a lot of work Master Chief
and he was an engineer on the boat he's
still active Reserve you come in and
help us out with livery power in the
engine and put the new engine back in
and get all systems back operating again
and one of the bigger projects was to
take all the rub rails off I try to
protect the rubber rails because I don't
want to replace them again the rubber
rails are kind of a deep channel rubber
there so they're out on the inside and
there's a stainless steel plate in there
and there's I think we kind of hundred
nine bolts holding it on so first way to
get those metal rails out of the older
of rail then pound them flat force them
into the new rub rail get them and then
bending it to the shape at all again
spent many weekends we had what we call
the rub rail parties and guys many
people isn't good to start hitting it
with hammers still worked the
involvement in putting these rub rails
that protect the side of the ship when
you're when you're docking
was a three weekend affair with about
four or five guys working constantly and
it was quite an experience
you might think by looking at her that
the extreme makeover job is done but
Brian fills us in on a little inside tip
some of its just still of doing some of
the original work originally we got all
the paint everything on the exterior
done it makes it look good while we're
underway there's now there's a lot of
interior stuff people don't usually see
we got to get going
we've got preventative maintenance on
the engines oil changes things like that
the interior work and ongoing
maintenance aside we find out what this
boat really means to this crew 35
members in our hotel we're very very
active we do in excess of probably 150
vessel exams a year in the area does
this bonus helped us out alive because
it's a great asset and it's set up for
search-and-rescue would set up for
towing and it's just a great platform
for us because I was stationed on this
boat when I was active duty so I know
the boat inside now so it's been kind of
a love affair for me going back
a love affair for sure just taking a
look at the photos of what she looked
like before the team got their hands on
her and you know for sure these folks
oxd their boat now it's time for you to
tell us if you've done what it takes to
Ox your boat you want to see and hear
what you've done to make your boat box
ready email us now at info at coast
guard channel comm so that we can
feature your boat in a future episode of
ox my boat